PROMISED NEW SAFEGUARDS AND MORE
TRANSPARENCY FOR SECRET
GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE
PROGRAMS EVEN AS HE DEFENDED
THEIR EXISTENCE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREBROWY N.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT: THE
PRESIDENT STRESSED THE
GOVERNMENT IS NOT INTERESTED IN
SPYING ON ORDINARY CITIZENS.
WE HAVE EXCERPTS FROM THE WHITE
HOUSE'S NEWS CONFERENCE.
>> THERE ARE STEPS WE CAN TAKE
TO GIVE THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
ADDITIONAL CONFIDENCE THAT THERE
ARE ADDITIONAL SAFEGUARDS
AGAINST ABUSE.
SO I'VE DIRECTED THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY TO MAKE
PUIC ABLS MUCH INFORMATION ABOUT
THESE PROGRAMS AS POSSIBLE.
>> Woodruff: THEN, DESPITE
RECENT CHALLENGING MOMENTS OF
DIPLOMACY, THE U.S. AND RUSSIA
HELD HIGH-LEVEL MEETINGS IN
WASHINGTON.
MARGARET WARNER RECAPS TODAY'S
TALKS.
>> Brown: FOUR OUT OF TEN STREET
LIGHTS DON'T WORK AND IT TAKES
AN HOUR ON AVERAGE FOR DETROIT
POLICE TO RESPOND TO 9-1-1
CALLS.
HARI SREENIVASAN LOOKS AT THE
MOTOR CITY'S BATTLE AMID
BANKRUPTCY.
>> DETROITERS ARE SO USED TO BAD
NEWS, AND THEY ARE SO USED TO
THINGS NOT REALLY BREAKING OUR
WAY, AND THEY'RE USED TO GETTING
UP THE NEXT MORNING AND GOG,IN
"WELL, I CAN'T STOP, I'VE GOT TO
KEEP GOING, I'VE GOT TO KEEP
TRYING."
>> Woodruff: DAVID BROOKS AND
RUTH MARCUS ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
>> Brown: AND YES, THOSE ARE
GOATS INHAT  TGRAVEYARD.
MORE THAN A HUNDRED OF THEM.
KWAME HOLMAN TELLS US WHAT
THEY'RE DOING IN THIS HISTORIC
WASHINGTON, D.C., CEMETERY.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
PLEDGED NEW OVERSIGHT OF
GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE PROGRAMS
TODAY, BUT SAID THE SPYING WOULD
CONTINUE.
HIS COMMENTS CAME IN THE FIRST
FULL-SCALE NEWS CONFERENCE SINCE
APRIL, LASTING NEARLY AN HOUR IN
THE EAST ROOM OF THE WHITE
HOUSE.
>> IT'S NOT ENOUGH FOR ME, AS
PRESIDENT, TO HAVE CONFIDENCE IN
THESE PROGRAMS.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE NEED TO HAVE
CONFIDENCE IN THEM AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT
FOLLOWED THOSE REMARKS BY
OUTLINING FOUR STEPS HIS
ADMINISTRATION WOULD TAKE TO
PROVIDE MORE SAFEGUARDS AND
GREATER TRANSPARENCY AROUND THE
GOVERNMENT'S SURVEILLANCE
ACTIVITIES.
THEY INCLUDED WORKING WITH
CONGRESS TO REFORM THE PATRIOT
ACT'S SECTION 215, THE LAW THAT
ALLOWS THE GOVERNMENT TO COLLECT
PHONE METADATA; ADDING A PRIVACY
REPRESENTATIVE TO THE FOREIGN
INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE COURT;
RELEASING THE LEGAL RATIONALE
FOR COLLECTION OF DATA AND
APPOINTING AN N.S.A.
REPRESENTATIVE COMMITTED TO
PRIVACY, AND INVITING OUTSIDE
EXPERTS TO REVIEW HOW THE
GOVERNMENT DOES ITS
SURVEILLANCE.
THE MEASURES COME AS THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS FACED
MOUNTING SCRUTINY OVER ITS
SURVEILLANCE PROGRAMS FOLLOWING
THE LEAKS FROM FORMER SPY AGENCY
CONTRACTOR EDWARD SNOWDEN.
MR. OBAMA WAS ASKED IF TODAY'S
MOVE CHANGED HIS MINDSET ABOUT
SNOWDEN.
>> IS HE NOW MORE A WHISTLE-
BLOWER THAN HE IS A HACKER, AS
YOU CALLED HIM AT ONE POINT, OR
SOMEBODY THAT SHOULDN'T BE FILED
CHARGES?
AND SHOULD HE BE PROVIDED MORE
PROTECTION?
IS HE A PATRIOT?
>> I DON'T THINK MR. SNOWDEN WAS
A PATRIOT.
AS I SAID IN MY OPENING REMARKS,
I CALLED FOR A THOROUGH REVIEW
OF OUR SURVEILLANCE OPERATIONS
BEFORE MR. SNOWDEN MADE THESE
LEAKS.
MY PREFERENCE-- AND I THINK THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE'S PREFERENCE--
WOULD HAVE BEEN FOR A LAWFUL,
ORDERLY EXAMINATION OF THESE
LAWS; A THOUGHTFUL, FACT-BASED
DEBATE THAT WOULD THEN LEAD US
TO A BETTER PLACE, BECAUSE I
NEVER MADE CLAIMS THAT ALL THE
SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGIES THAT
HAVE DEVELOPED SINCE THE TIME
SOME OF THESE LAWS HAD BEEN PUT
IN PLACE SOMEHOW DIDN'T REQUIRE,
POTENTIALLY, SOME ADDITIONAL
REFORMS.
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT I CALLED
FOR.
THAT SOMEHOW THEY GOT THERE
WILLY, NILLY, JUST SUCKING IN
INFORMATION ON EVERYBODY AND
DOING WHAT WE PLEASE WITH IT.
THAT'S NOT THE CASE.
OUR LAWS SPECIFICALLY PROHIBIT S
WITHOUT A WARRANT, AND THERE ARE
A WHOLE RANGE OF SAFEGUARDS THAT
HAVE BEEN PUT IN PLACE TO MAKE
SURE THAT, THAT BASIC PRINCIPLE
IS ABIDED BY.
BUT... BUT WHAT IS CLEAR IS
THAT, WHETHER BECAUSE OF THE
INSTINCTIVE BIAS OF THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY TO KEEP
EVERYTHING VERY CLOSE AND
PROBABLY WHAT'S A FAIR CRITICISM
IS MY ASSUMPTION THAT IF WE HAD
CHECKS AND BALANCES FROM THE
COURTS AND CONGRESS, THAT THAT
TRADITIONAL SYSTEM OF CHECKS AND
BALANCES WOULD BE ENOUGH TO GIVE
PEOPLE ASSURANCE THAT THESE
PROGRAMS WERE RUN PROPERLY.
YOU KNOW, THAT ASSUMPTION I
THINK PROVED TO BE UNDERMINED BY
WHAT HAPPENED AFTER THE LEAKS.
I THINK PEOPLE HAVE QUESTIONS
ABOUT THIS PROGRAM.
AND THERE'S NO DOUBT THAT MR.
SNOWDEN'S LEAKS TRIGGERED A MUCH
MORE RAPID AND PASSIONATE
RESPONSE THAN WOULD HAVE BEEN
THE CASE IF I HAD SIMPLY
APPOINTED THIS REVIEW BOARD TO
GO THROUGH-- AND I'D SAT DOWN
WITH CONGRESS AND WE HAD WORKED
THIS THING THROUGH-- IT WOULD
HAVE BEEN LESS EXCITING AND IT
WOULD NOT HAVE GENERATED AS MUCH
PRESS.
I ACTUALLY THINK WE WOULD HAVE
GOTTEN TO THE SAME PLACE, AND WE
WOULD HAVE DONE SO WITHOUT
PUTTING AT RISK OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY AND SOME VERY VITAL
WAYS THAT WE ARE ABLE TO GET
INTELLIGENCE THAT WE NEED TO
SECURE THE COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT WAS
ALSO ASKED ABOUT THREATS BY SOME
CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS TO
SHUT DOWN THE GOVERNMENT UNLESS
FUNDING FOR THE HEALTH CARE LAW
IS ELIMINATED.
>> THEY USED TO SAY THEY HAD A
REPLACEMENT.
THAT... THAT NEVER ACTUALLY
ARRIVED, RIGHT?
I MEAN, I'VE BEEN HEARING ABOUT
THIS WHOLE REPLACE THING FOR TWO
YEARS.
NOW, I JUST DON'T HEAR ABOUT IT,
BECAUSE BASICALLY, THEY DON'T
HAVE AN AGENDA TO PROVIDE HEALTH
INSURANCE TO PEOPLE AT
AFFORDABLE RATES.
AND THE... THE IDEA THAT YOU
WOULD SHUT DOWN THE GOVERNMENT
AT A TIME WHEN THE RECOVERY'S
GETTING SOME TRACTION, WHERE
WE'RE GROWING, ALTHOUGH NOT AS
FAST AS WE NEED TO, WHERE THE
HOUSING MARKET IS RECOVERING,
ALTHOUGH NOT AS FAST AS WE WOULD
LIKE, THAT WE WOULD PRECIPITATE
ANOTHER CRISIS HERE IN
WASHINGTON THAT NO ECONOMIST
THINKS IS A GOOD IDEA-- I'M
ASSUMING THAT THEY WILL NOT TAKE
THAT... THAT PATH.
I HAVE CONFIDENCE THAT COMMON
SENSE IN THE END WILL PREVAIL.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT ALSO
FIELDED QUESTIONS ON HIS
UPCOMING DECISION TO APPOINT A
NEW FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN
THIS FALL, SAYING IT WAS ONE OF
THE MOST IMPORTANT DECISIONS
THAT REMAINED IN HIS PRESIDENCY.
AND HE ALSO URGED HOUSE
REPUBLICANS TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
AN IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL  ONCE
MEMBERS RETURN FROM THEIR SUMMER
RECESS.
>> Brown: LATER IN THE PROGRAM
WE'LL HAVE DAVID BROOKS AND RUTH
MARCUS RESPOND TO WHAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID.
BETWEEN NOW AND THEN: THE U.S.
AND RUSSIA TRY TO WARM THEIR
FROSTY RELATIONSHIP; DETROIT
STGGLERUS AFTER DECLARING
BANKRUPTCY; BROOKS AND MARCUS ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS AND GOATS IN THE
GRAVEYARD.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: AMERICAN GOVERNMENT
PERSONNEL LEFT LAHORE, PAKISTAN
TODAY BECAUSE OF A SPECIFIC
THREAT TO THE CONSULATE THERE.
THE U.S. SHIFTED
NON-ESSENTIAL STAFF FROM LAHORE
TO THE CAPITAL, ISLAMABAD.
EMBASSY OFFICIALS WOULD NOT SAY
WHEN THE CONSULATE MIGHT REOPEN.
THE CLOSING CAME AMID A FLURRY
OF MILITANT ATTACKS, INCLUDING
ONE ON A MOSQUE IN QUETTA TODAY
THAT KILLED SIX PEOPLE.
GUNMEN OPENED FIRE ON
WORSHIPPERS AS THEY WERE
LEAVING.
SAUDI ARABIA ARRESTED TWO
SUSPECTED AL QAEDA MILITANTS IN
CONNECTION WITH THE RECENT
CLOSURE OF WESTERN EMBASSIES IN
THE REGION.
THEY WERE FROM YEMEN AND CHAD.
THE SAUDI ARABIAN INTERIOR
MINISTRY SAID AN INVESTIGATION
FOUND THE TWO WERE PLOTTING
SUICIDE ATTACKS.
COMPUTER HARDWARE, ELECTRONIC
DEVICES AND MOBILE PHONES WERE
SEIZED ALONG WITH THE SUSPECTS.
FIRE CREWS IN SOUTHERN
CALIFOIA RNTODAY BATTLED STRONG
WINDS AS THEY RACED TO GAIN
GROUND ON A FAST-MOVING
WILDFIRE.
MORE THAN 1,600 FIREFIGHTERS ARE
WORKING TO PUT OUT THE FLAMES
ACROSS THE SAN JACINTO
MOUNTAINS.
THE FIRE HAS GROWN TO 25 SQUARE
MILES AND IS 25% CONTAINED.
THE BLAZE BROKE OUT WEDNESDAY
AFTERNOON.
SINCE THEN, IT'S DESTROYED MORE
THAN TWO DOZEN HOMES, AND FORCED
SOME 1,800 RESIDENTS TO FLEE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SIGNED A
BIPARTISAN COMPROMISE ON STUDENT
LOANS INTO LAW TODAY, JUST IN
TIME FOR THE FALL SEMESTER.
HE MADE IT OFFICIAL DURING A
CEREMONY IN THE OVAL OFFICE.
THE DEAL WILL TIE INTEREST RATES
TO THE PERFORMANCE OF THE
FINANCIAL MARKETS.
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WOULD SEE
THEIR BORROWING RATES FALL BACK
BELOW 4%.
BUT COSTS WOULD RISE OVER TIME
AS THE ECONOMY IMPROVES.
THE INTERNATIONAL TRADE
COMMISSION IN WASHINGTON FOUND
TODAY THAT SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS
VIOLATED TWO APPLE PATENTS ON
MOBILE DEVICES.
APPLE CLAIMED SAMSUNG SLAVISHLY
COPIED ITS iPHONE AND iPAD
TABLET COMPUTERS.
AS PART OF THE RULING, U.S.
IMPORTS, SALES AND DISTRIBUTION
OF THOSE SAMSUNG PRODUCTS ARE
PROHIBITED.
THE IMPORT BAN IS SUBJECT TO
REVIEW BY PRESIDENT OBAMA, WHO
COULD OVERTURN IT ON PUBLIC
POLICY GROUNDS.
STOCKS ON WALL STREET TODAY
FINISHED THE WEEK IN NEGATIVE
TERRITORY AND CLOSED OUT THE
WORST WEEK SINCE JUNE.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 73 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 15,425.
THE NASDAQ FELL NINE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,660.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW LOST A
PERCENT AND A HALF.
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 1%.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: DESPITE HEIGHTENED
TENSIONS BETWEEN THE U.S. AND
RUSSIA RECENTLY.
HIGH-LEVEL TALKS IN WASHINGTON
TODAY TRIED TO FIND SOME COMMON
GROUND.
MARGARET WARNER HAS THE STORY.
ONE OF THE THE FIRST QUESTIONS
NADE'S NEWS CONFERENCE WAS ABOUT
THE ROCKY U.S.-RUSSIAN
RELATIONSHIP.
>> WHEN PRESIDENT PUTIN CAME
BACK INTO POWER, I THINK WE SAW
MORE ARE THE RICK ON THE RUSSIAN
SIDE THAT WAS ANTI-AMERICAN,
THAT PLAYED INTO SOME OF THE OLD
SPHWOOPTZ THE COLD WAR CONTEST
BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND
RUSSIA.
I DON'T HAVE A BAD PERSONAL
RELATIONSHIP WITH PUTIN.
I KNOW THE PRESS LIKES TO FOCUS
ON BODY LANGUAGE, AND HE'S GOT
THAT KIND OF SLOUCH, LOOKING
LIKE THE BORED KID, IN THE BACK
OF THE CLASSROOM.
BUT THE TRUTH IS THAT WHEN WE'RE
IN CONVERSATIONS TOGETHER,
OFTENTIMES IT'S VERY PRODUCTIVE
>> Warner: EVEN BEFORE THE
PRESIDENT SPOKE, SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY AND DEFENSE
SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL BEGAN
TALKS WITH THEIR RUSSIAN
COUNTERPARTS.
THE LONG-SCHEDULED MEETING AT
THE STATE DEPARTMENT WENT AHEAD,
DESPITE THE PRESIDENT'S
GRANTED ASYLUM TO U.S. NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENDY LEAKER EDWARD
SNOWDEN, AS WAS EVIDENT WHEN THE
TWO PRESIDENTS MET IN SCOTLAND
IN JUNE.
BUT OPENING TODAY'S SESSION,
SECRETARY KERRY SAID HE HOPED
THE TWO SIDES COULD STILL ENGAGE
ON A WIDE RANGE OF ISSUES.
>> IT'S NO SECRET THAT WE HAVE
EXPERIENCED SOME CHALLENGING
MOMENTS AND, OBVIOUSLY, NOT JUST
OVER THE SNOWDEN CASE.
WE WILL DISCUSS THESE
DIFFERENCES TODAY FOR CERTAIN.
BUT THIS MEETING REMAINS
IMPORTANT ABOVE AND BEYOND THE
COLLISIONS AND THE MOMENTS OF
DISAGREEMENT.
>> Warner: FOREIGN MINISTER
SERGEY LAVROV SAID HE TOO HOPED
FOR PROGRESS IN THE DAY'S TALKS.
>> ( translated ): I REMEMBER
THAT WHEN I FIRST MET JOHN IN
HIS CURRENT ROLE AND HAD WHAT
ONE MIGHT CALL ESTABLISHING
TALKS, HE SAID THAT OUR
COUNTRIES HAVE A SPECIAL
RESPONSIBILITY AND THERE IS MUCH
THAT DEPENDS ON US SO WE NEED TO
WORK TOGETHER AS GROWN-UPS.
WE WILL TRY TO DO THIS AND COUNT
ON A SIMILAR ATTITUDE IN RETURN.
>> Warner: BUT AFTER THE
MEETINGS, SPEAKING TO REPORTERS
AT THE RUSSIAN EMBASSY, LAVROV
DIDN'T SOUND QUITE SO POSITIVE.
>> ( translated ): THE OVERALL
MOOD IS VERY POSITIVE, WHICH
INSPIRES OPTIMISM, AND I HOPE
THE CONSULTATIONS BRING US
CLOSURE WITH RESPECT TO
STRATEGIC ABILITY AND I HOPE
THEY WILL CONTINUE TO BE
INSTRUMENTAL IN STRENGTHING
SECURITY GLOBALLY.
>> Warner: BUT HE TOOK ISSUE
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA'S COMMENT
ABOUT RUSSIANA'S INCLINATION
SLIP INTO COLD WAR MENTALITY.
>> ( transted la): IT IS CLEAR
THERE IS NO COLD WAR WE SHOULD
EXPECT.
THE RELATIONSHIP IS QUITE NORMAL
AND WE SHOULDN'T EXCTPE ANY
AGGRAVATION.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Warner: YET, ON A COUPLE OF
CONTENTIOUS ISSUES LIKE SYRIA
AND MISSILE DEFENSE, LAVROV
OFFERED NO CONCRETE EVIDENCE OF
PROGRESS MADE TODAY.
>> Brown: MARGARET WAS AT THE
RUSSIAN EMBASSY TODAY AND JOINS
ME NOW.
>> Warner: GOING, IN OF
COURSE, THE BIG QUESTION WAS HOW
WOULD THE RUSSIANS ARRIVE, WHAT
WOULD BE THEIR ATTITUDE ABOUT
THE CANCELLATION OF THE SMIT?UM
WOULD THEY BE INFURIATED OR
ACTUALLY READY TO DO BUSINESS.
FROM WHAT WE'RE TOLD WE BOTH
SIDES, THE SNOWDEN AFFAIR WAS
DEALT WITH AT THE TOP, THEY
REPEATED THEIR POSITIONS, AND
THERE WAS A MORE PRAGMATIC TONE
DEALING WITH ALL THESE SPECIFIC
POORNZ YOU COULD, HOWEVER, SEE
THAT, FROM WHAT PRESIDENT OBAMA
SAID IN HIS NEWS CONFERENCE
WHICH WAS SCHEDULED AFTER THE
MEETINGS THAT AS FAR AS HE WAS
CONCERNED THERE WAS NO
BREAKTHROUGH.
>> Brown: YOU HAVE BEEN
TALKING TO U.S. OFFICIALS I KNOW
ALL DAY.
YOU CAN SUM UPON THE PROBLEM
FROM THEIR PERSPECTIVE?
THE PROBLEM FROM THEIR
PERSPECTIVE IS, OF COURSE, YOU
HAVE THESE INTRACTABLE ISSUES
THAT THE U.S. AND RUSSIA ARE
TRYING TO COOPERATE ON, LIKE
SYRIA.
HOW DO YOU BRING A POLITICAL
SIEWGZ TO THAT, BUT KERRY AND
LAVROV WERE AT LEAST TALKING ON
THAT ALL THE TIME.
THE THING THAT REALLY STUCK IN
THE WHITE HOUSE'S CRAW, THE
ADMINISTRATION'S CRAW, WAS
PRESIDENT OBAMA WROTE A VERY
CAREFUL AND EXTENSIVE LETTER IN
APRIL LAYING OUT WHAT HE THOUGHT
THEY REALLY SHOULD ACCOMPLISH
BEFORE THIS SUMMIT, AND IN
PARTICULAR, OFFERING--
SUGGESTING FURTHER ARMS
REDUCTIONS, AND OFFERING A
CREATIVE WAY IN DEALING WITH
PRESIDENT PUTIN'S CONCERNS ABOUT
MISSILE DEFENSE.
SURPRISINGLY TO THE UNITED
STATES, THEY DIDN'T EVEN GET
THE-- IT WAS AN INSULT THAT
THERE WAS NO REAL REPLY.
THERE WAS NO REAL
COUNTER-PROPOSALS.
A LOT OF TALKING IN CIRCLES.
AND SO THAT TO THEM WAS EVIDENCE
THAT PUTIN JUST IS NOT SERIOUS,
REALLY, ABOUT ENGAGING WITH THE
UNITED STATES RIGHT NOW.
>> Brown: AND HOW MUCH OF IT
IS PERSONAL OBAMA-PUTIN
RELATIONSHIP IS-- I MEAN, WE
HEARD THE PRESIDENT TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT IT.
>> Warner: YES.
>> Brown: HE ALSO POINTEDLY
REFERRED TO HIS PROGRESS WITH
THEN-PRESIDENT MEDVEDEV ED, AS
OPPOSED TO PRESIDENT PUTIN.
>> Warner: ABSOLUTELY.
AND THAT WAS A CALCULATED MOVE
ON THE PRESIDENT'S PART DURING
THOSE THREE YEARS THAT MEDVEDEV
ED WAS PRESIDENT.
THEY DID MAKE PROGRESS.
IT IS ROOTED IN THEIR DIFFERENT
PERSONALITIES.
I MEAN, THE TWO MEN ARE OIL AND
WATER, BUT I THINK IT'S ALSO
ROOTED IN PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
TEMPERAMENT.
THAT IS, HE IS NOT SEEK A CHUMMY
RELATIONSHIP FOR ITS OWN SAY, AS
IT'S BEEN DESCRIBED ME.
THIS ISN'T BILL CLINTON WANTING
TO EMBRACE BORIS YELTSIN IN A
BEAR HUG.
THIS IS A TRANSACTIONAL GUY.
HE WANTS TO HAVE DELIVERABLES,
AND IF HE THINKS THAT PUTIN
ISN'T INTERESTED IN THAT AND THE
WHITE HOUSE THEORY AND THE
ADMINISTRATION THEORY IS THAT'S
BECAUSE OF PUTIN'S OWN DOMESTIC
POLITICAL PROBLEMS, THEN HE'S
NOT INTERESTED.
>> Brown: AND HOW MUCH FROM
THE RUSSIAN SIDE, HOW MUCH WERE
YOU ABLE TO GAUGE THE LINGERING
EFFECTS OF THE PRESIDENT'S
DECISION THIS WEEK NOT TO GO TO
THE SUMMIT, FOR EXAMPLE?
>> Warner: WELL, THERE ARE TWO
STRAINS.
IN THE RUSSIAN MEDIA IT'S BEING
PORTRAYED AS OBAMA BEING THE ONE
WEAK POLAL HOME.
HE COULDN'T WITHSTAND THE
PRESSURE OVER THE SNOWDEN
MATTER.
HE WAS RESPONDING CHILDISHLY.
THE STATE-INFLUENCED MEDIA IS
PLAYING IT THAT WAY.
THE OFFICIALS WHO CAME HERE
ACTUALLY AT LEAST GAVE IN BODY
LANGUAGE AND IN TONE THAT THEY
REALLY DO WANT TO DO BUSINESS.
AND IN FACT, THE DEFENSE
MINISTER MADE A CURIOUS
STATEMENT AND HE WAS ASKED ABOUT
THIS.
HE SAID, "FAR FROM LOWERING THE
TEMPERATURE IN OUR RELATIONSHIP
IT'S ACTUALLY HEATED IT UP."
HE DIDN'T MEAN HOTTER AS IN MORE
CONTENTIOUS.
THE QUESTION IS WILL THERE BE
MEAT ON THE BONES?
AND ON THAT QUESTION THE U.S.
ADMINISTRATION FELT, OKAY, THEY
SEEM TO BE TAKING THE MISSILE
DEFENSE PROPOSALS MORE
SERIOUSLY.
I WON'T GET INTO THE DETAILS OF
THOSE, BUT THEY STILL WEREN'T
PREPARED TO COME FORWARD WITH
THE KIND OF PROPOSAL THAT THEN
YOU COULD START HAVING REAL
NEGOTIATIONS AND SOMETHING FOR
THE TWO PRESIDENTS TO SIGN OR
AGREE ON.
>> Brown: SO WHEN WE HEAR THE
PRESIDENT TALK ABOUT INSURGENCY
THE OVERALL RELATIONSHIP, AND
REMEMBER, OF COURSE, HE CAME IN
SAYING HE WANTED TO RESET THE
RELATIONSHIP FROM FOUR-PLUS
YEARS AGO NOW.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN AT THIS
POINT?
>> Warner: IT MEANS THAT THE
PROOF IS IN THE PUDDING, THAT--
AGAIN, I'M NOT INTERESTED IN
JUST A RELATIONSHIP FOR ITS OWN
SAKE.
WHEREAS HE'S LAVISHED A LOT OF
ATTENTION ON MEDVEDEV ED, BUT
THAT'S BECAUSE HE THOUGHT THERE
WAS A PROSPECT OF GETTING REAL
DEALS, WHICH THERE WERE.
I THINK AT THIS POINT IT'S CLEAR
THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS
CONCLUDED YOU KNOW, SHOW ME THE
MONEY.
SHOOE SHOW ME YOUR INTEREST.
AND AT THE VERY END HAS A
BACKGROUND BRIEFING, STATEMENT
OFFICIALS TODAY, AND ONE OF THEM
SAID THERE WILL BE ANOTHER
SUMMIT IF AND ONLY WHEN, OR
WORDS TO THAT EFFECT,@IT'S THE
KIND OF SUMMIT THAT DEMONSTRATES
THAT THE U.S.-RUSSIA
RELATIONSHIP MATTERS.
IT'S KIND OF ONE OF THOSE "OUCH"
COMMENT.
>> Brown: MARGARET WARNER,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Warner:  PLMYEASURE.
>> Woodruff: NOW, FROM DETROIT.
THE LARGEST U.S. CITY EVER TO
FILE FOR BANKRUPTCY.
A LOOK AT WHAT LIFE IS LIKE FOR
CITIZENS OF A CITY THAT HAS FOR
DECADES BEEN WITHERING AROUND
THEM AND SOME RECENT EFFORTS TO
REVERSE THE DECLINE.
HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS.
>> Reporter: WOW, THIS IS BAD,
SO ALL THESE YARDS ARE LIKE
THIS?
>> ALL THESE YARDS, WE HAVE
PROBABLY FOUR VACANT HOMES ALL
IN THIS CONDITION GOING THIS
WAY.
NOW THIS IS A SCHOOL ROUTE.
>> Reporter: WHAT HAPPENED TO
RICK PIORNACK'S NEIGHBORHOOD IS
JUST THE MOST VISUAL REMINDER OF
WHAT'S HAPPENED TO DETROIT.
BUT FOR PIORNACK, IT'S ONE THAT
HITS CLOSE TO HOME.
SO, COMPARED TO WHAT IT WAS LIKE
WHEN YOU WERE A KID, THIS HAS
GOT TO BE PRETTY SAD TO SEE?
>> VERY SAD, VERY SAD.
>> Reporter: PIORNACK SPENT MORE
THAN 30 YEARS FIGHTING FIRES
ACROSS THIS CITY.
NOW RETIRED AND ON A FIXED
INCOME, HE AND HIS WIFE BRENDA
ARE STAYING PUT IN THE HOME THEY
HAVE LIVED IN FOR MORE THAN FOUR
DECADES DESPITE THE ERODING
HOUSES AROUND THEM.
BUT PIORNACK IS FEELING
DETROIT'S FINANCIAL WOES IN
OTHER WAYS, TOO.
HE'S IS JUST ONE OF NEARLY
30,000 CURRENT AND RETIRED CITY
WORKERS WHO EXPECT TO SEE CUTS
TO THEIR PENSIONS AND HEALTH
CARE BENEFITS AS THE CITY TRIES
TO DIG ITSELF OUT OF FINANCIAL
RUIN.
DETROIT CAN'T PAY ITS BILLS, AND
IT IS LOOKING TO CUT DEBTS THAT
CITY OFFICIALS SAY REACHES $18
BILLION.
>> I FEEL VERY LET DOWN, MY
FATHER WAS A POLICE OFFICER IN
THE CITY, I'VE BEEN A FIREMAN IN
THE CITY, MY SON IS A FIREMAN IN
THE CITY.
I FEEL LIKE I'VE REALLY BEEN LET
DOWN.
>> Reporter: JUST WEEKS AGO,
DETROIT BECAME THE LARGEST
MUNICIPALITY EVER TO FILE FOR
BANKRUPTCY.
THERE ARE MANY UNKNOWNS AS THE
CITY ATTEMPTS A RESTRUCTURING
PLAN.
STEPHEN HENDERSON, EDITORIAL
EDITOR AT "THE DETROIT FREE
PRESS GREW UP HERE AND IS
INTIMATELY AWARE OF THE CITY'S
FIGHTING SPIRIT BUT SAYS
BANKRUPTCY MAY BE THE CITY'S
TOUGHEST CHALLENGE YET.
>> THERE'S NOT MUCH DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN MT PLOSACES IN DETROIT
AND POST-KATRINA NEW ORLEANS.
ITS NOT AS SHOCKING BECAUSE IT
HAPPENED OVER A LONG PERIOD OF
TIME, BUT IT'S JUST AS
DEVASTATING.
>> Reporter: DETROIT'S DECLINE
FROM AN INDUSTRIAL POWERHOUSE
INTO A FINANCIAL RUIN HAS BEEN
SLOW AND LONG.
AT ITS HEIGHT IN THE 1950s,
DETROIT BOASTED MORE THAN
300,000 MANUFACTURING JOBS.
NOW THAT NUMBER IS LESS THAN
30,000.
THAT 90% DECREASE HAS LEFT HUGE
HOLES, LIKE THE ONES IN
PIORNACK'S NEIGHBORHOOD, ALL
ACROSS THE CITY.
THERE ARE AT LEAST 60,000
PARCELS OF VACANT LAND.
BLIGHTED HOUSES ARE A FREQUENT
REMINDER OF JUST HOW DEEP
DETROIT'S PROBLEMS ARE.
THE CITY HAS SEEN THE POPULATION
DECLINE FROM A PEAK OF 1.8
MILLION TO JUST OVER 700,000
RESIDENTS.
THAT MEANS A SMALLER TAX BASE IN
A CITY TRYING TO PROVIDE ALL THE
SAME SERVICES.
40% OF THE CITY'S STREET LIGHTS
DON'T WORK FOR LACK OF REPAIR
CREWS.
THE AVERAGE RESPONSE TIME FOR
THE DETROIT POLICE DEPARTMENT TO
A 911 CALL IS 58 MINUTES.
AND BUSES ARE CONSTANTLY LATE--
IF THEY COME AT ALL-- MAKING IT
HARD FOR RESIDENTS LIKE IVORY
DRAKE TO MAKE IT TO WORK AND
KEEP HIS JOB.
>> IT USED TO BE I COULD GET ON
THE BUS AND BE ANYWHERE, AND
HAVE TO START AN HOUR BEFORE I
COULD START WORKING, BUT NOW IF
YOU DON'T GET OUT EARLY ENOUGH,
OR TWO HOURS BEFORE YOU HAVE TO
BE TO WORK, YOU'RE LATE.
>> Reporter: THE CITY HAS
PROMISED THAT REINVESTMENT IN
THESE KEY SERVICES WILL BE THE
SILVER LINING OF THE BANKRUPTCY.
THE CITY'S RECENTLY APPOINTED
EMERGENCY MANAGER KEVYN ORR SAYS
THEY HOPE TO REINVEST $1.25
BILLION IN SERVICE UPGRADES AND
INFRASTRUCTURE.
HERE'S ORR IN A CONVERSATION
WITH "NEWSHOUR'S" RAY SUAREZ IN
JULY.
>> WHAT DETROITERS SHOULD EXPECT
IS THAT SERVICES ARE GOING TO
GET BETTER.
WE'RE ALREADY FOCUSING ON
LIGHTING, BLIGHT, POLICE
SERVICES, HEALTH, SAFETY AND
WELFARE CONCERNS.
>> Reporter: BUT DETROITERS LIKE
KIM AND IVORY DRAKE ARE STILL
SKEPTICAL ABOUT WHETHER THE
BANKRUPTCY PROCESS MEANS THE
CITY CAN IMPROVE THEIR EAST
DETROIT NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> I BET IF YOU COME BACK, NEXT
YEAR...
>> MY LIGHTS WILL STILL BE OUT.
>> IT'LL PROBABLY STILL BE
LOOKING THE SAME, YOU'LL
PROBABLY STILL HAVE THEM HOUSES
OVER THERE THAT'S VACANT, THE
ONE RIGHT NEXT TO ME, THE ONE
RIGHT DOWN THE CORNER, IT'S NOT
GOING TO HELP AT ALL.
>> I THINK THE LEGITIMATE
CYNICISM PEOPLE HAVE IS THAT
BANKRUPTCY WILL JUST BE ABOUT
MAKING A BAREBONES, BARE MINIMUM
CITY, FINANCIALLY SOLVENT,
SPARTAN SERVICES, NOT THAT MANY
PEOPLE AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
>> Reporter: SOME COMMUNITIES
ARE BEYOND WAITING FOR THE CITY
TO TURN THINGS AROUND, THEY'VE
TAKEN MATTERS INTO THEIR OWNHAN.
EVERYDAY, RESIDENTS IN THIS
NORTHWEST CORNER OF DETROIT ARE
ROLLING UP THEIR SLEEVES AND
USING WHATEVER TOOLS THEY CAN
GET THEIR HANDS ON TO TEAR DOWN
VACANT HOUSES.
THEY'RE TRANSFORMING URBAN
WASTELANDS INTO GARDENS AND
BOARDED UP STOREFRONTS INTO
MURALS.
WE DROPPED BY A BUSY MEETING IN
THE COMMUNITY OF BRIGHTMOOR
WHERE RESIDENTS LIKE JODY
SCARLETT DISCUSS NEIGHBORHOOD
NEEDS AND THEN DELEGATE THE
RESOURCES NECESSARY TO TACKLE
THEM.
>> IF YOU ASK THE CITY FOR
SOMETHING, IT'S JUST
BUREAUCRACY, JUST WAIT, IT'S
LIKE A HURRY UP AND WAIT AND
WAIT AND NOTHING EVER GETS DONE.
THE COMMUNITY GROUP HELPS US TO
GET THINGS DONE THAT THE CITY
JUST DOESN'T PROVIDE.
>> Reporter: COMMUNITY ACTION
HAS BEEN FUELED BY PRIVATE AND
NON-PROFIT INVESTMENT.
JUST WEEKS AGO THESE 14 BLOCKS
IN BRIGHTMOOR WERE FULL OF 84
TONS OF DEBRIS, OVERGROWN WEEDS,
AND ROTTING TRASH.
NOW THE LAND HAS BEEN CLEARED,
IT'S A $500,000 PRIVATELY FUNDED
PROJECT THAT LOCAL NONPROFITS
HOPE TO SEE REPLICATED AROUND
THE CITY.
THE NEXT PHASE OF THIS PROJECT
TERRANCE GORES HOUSE IS ONE OF
THE FEW REMAINING IN THIS
CLUSTER OF BLOCKS.
GORE STARTED OUT JUST PICKING UP
TRASH-- NOW HE WORKS FULL TIME
DRIVING A TRACTOR TO COMBAT THE
BLIGHT THAT SURROUNDS HIM IN
BRIGHTMOOR.
HE USED TO CALL THE NEIGHBORHOOD
THE MOOR BECAUSE HE COULD NOT
SEE ANYTHING BRIGHT ABOUT IT.
>> YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT THIS,
EVERY DAY SMELL.
IT STINKS FROM THE TRASH PEOPLE
AND NOW JUST TO WAKE UP YOU CAN
SMELL FRESH AIR, YOU CAN LOOK,
AND IT'S LIKE, I'M AMAZED.
IT'S A GOOD FEELING, IT'S LIKE I
CAN'T REALLY DESCRIBE HOW IT
FEELS EVERY DAY JUST TO WAKE UP
TO A CLEANER NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> Reporter: HE IS HOPEFUL THAT
THE BANKRUPTCY IS A CHANCE TO
RESET THE DECK FOR THE WHOLE
CITY AND THAT IT WILL ONLY
BOLSTER HIS NEIGHBORHOOD'S
EFFORTS.
>> I'M JUST SEEING THIS AS JUST
A START.
IF WE CAN GET THIS DONE, WHILE
GOING TO BANKRUPTCY, WHAT CAN WE
GET DONE WHEN WE'RE FINANCIALLY
STABLE?
A WHOLE LOT MORE THAN THIS.
>> Reporter: IT WON'T BE EASY.
40% OF BRIGHTMOOR'S FAMILIES
LIVE BELOW THE POVERTY LINE AND
IN A SINGLE DECADE THE
NEIGHBORHOOD'S POPULATION
DROPPED BY 35%.
EVEN THOSE WHO ARE WORKING TO
BETTER THE COMMUNITY ARE
CAUTIOUSLY OPTIMISTIC.
>> I'M HOPEFUL THAT IT WILL GET
BETTER, BUT AT THE SAME TIME I'M
VERY.... AT TIMES I JUST WANT TO
GET OUT.
AT TIMES I JUST WANT TO LEAVE MY
HOUSE BEHIND AND GO.
>> Reporter: REVIVING
NEIGHBORHOODS IS CRITICAL BUT SO
ARE JOBS.
AND THAT'S WHERE NEW INDUSTRIES
CLOSER TO THE CITY CENTER MIGHT
MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
MANY ARE HIGH TECH STARTUPS BUT
SHINOLA IS BRINGING
MANUFACTURING BACK TO THE MOTOR
CITY.
IT'S MAKING CRAFT BICYCLES,
WATCHES, AND FINE LEATHER GOODS.
BUSINESS HAS TAKEN OFF AND IN
TERMS OF THE CITY'S BANKRUPTCY
FILING, C.E.O. STEVE BOCK SAYS
THE COMPANY KNEW WHAT IT WAS
GETTING INTO.
>> WE KNEW WHEN WE CAME TO
DETROIT SEVERAL YEARS AGO THAT
THERE WERE FINANCIAL CHALLENGES,
THAT THERE WERE CHALLENGES IN
THE CITY.
HAD WE MADE A DECISION TODAY IF
THE BANKRUPTCY HAD BEEN
DECLARED, WE WOULD HAVE MADE
EXACTLY THE SAME DECISION.
>> Reporter: SHINOLA ASSEMBLY
LINE LEADER WILLIE HOLLEY HAS
EVEN MORE AMBITIONS FOR THE
FUTURE.
SO WHAT'S YOUR BEST CASE
SCENARIO, TWO YEARS FROM NOW,
FIVE YEARS FROM NOW, WHAT DO YOU
SEE HAPPENING?
>> I SEE US EXPANDING,
ESPECIALLY ON OUR OTHER WING,
TRYING TO MAKE OTHER GOODS, AND
JOURNALS, AND THINGS OF THAT
NATURE, AND JUST HAVING LIKE A
HUGE WORKFORCE, SORT OF, THAT
CAN COMPETE EVEN WITH THE BIG
THREE, SO I MEAN, IT WOULD BE
NICE IF SHINOLA WAS IN LIGHTS
NEXT TO G.M. IN THE OTHER
RENAISSANCE BUILDING, OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> Reporter: RIGHT NOW THAT
SEEMS LIKE A FAR OFF DREAM.
BUT OTHER INVESTMENTS AND YOUNG
PEOPLE COMING TO THE CITY MAY
MAKE THAT DREAM POSSIBLE.
>> DETROITERS ARE SO USED TO BAD
NEWS, AND THEY ARE SO USED TO
THINGS NOT REALLY BREAKING OUR
WAY, AND THEY'RE USED TO GETTING
UP THE NEXT MORNING AND GOING,
"WELL, I CAN'T STOP, I'VE GOT TO
KEEP GOING, I'VE GOT TO KEEP
TRYING."
>> Reporter: THAT RESILIENCE
MIGHT TURN OUT TO BE THE CITY'S
GREATEST ASSET, THAT NOT EVEN A
BANKRUPTCY CAN LIQUIDATE.
>> Brown: ONLINE, WILL OTHER
CITIES FOLLOW IN DETROIT'S
FOOTSTEPS?
YOU CAN TAKE A SECOND LOOK AT
OUR "HEALTH OF CITIES"
CONVERSATION.
THAT'S ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF BROOKS AND MARCUS.
THAT IS "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS AND
"WASHINGTON POST" COLUMNIST RUTH
MARCUS.
MARK SHIELDS IS OFF TODAY.
SO I WANT TO ASK YOU BOTH ABOUT
THE PRESIDENT'S NEWS CONFERENCE.
FIRST, DAVID, WHAT WE JUST SAW
FROM DETROIT, IS THERE SOME
REASON TO BE HELPFUL?
>> MAYBE.
IT'S NOT GOOD WHEN ONE OF YOUR
LEADING INDUSTRIES IS TEARING
THINGS DOWN BUT THERE ARE
AMAZING GAINS TO BE MADE
CONCENTRATING POPULATION.
ACCIDENT SCENITY OF POPULATION
CREATES ECONOMIC GAINS, AND SOME
DEVELOPMENT IN DOWNTOWN DETROIT,
WHICH IS SORT OF LIKE YUPPIES
COMING BACK.
SO IF THEY CAN SHRINK THE CITY
BACK TO A MORE CONCENTRATED
CORE, THERE MAY BE SOME REBOUND.
PROPERTY VALUES ARE PRETTY LOW.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU TAKE SOME
HOPE AWAY FROM THIS?
>> WELL, I THOUGHT THE
DISCUSSION OF COMMUNITY
ORGANIZING-- I KNOW THAT'S A
LITTLE BIT OF A DIRTY WORD-- BUT
COMMUNITY ACTION AND THE ENERGY
OF THE NONPROFIT SECTOR WAS VERY
UPLIFTING AND VERY HOPEFUL.
BUT IN THE END, YOU CANNOT HAVE
A CITY WITHOUT A FUNCTIONING
CITY GOVERNMENT, AND WHEN PEOPLE
ARE WAITING FOR AN HOUR FOR AN
AMBULANCE--
>> Woodruff: IT'S TOUGH.
>>-- IT'S TIME.
HOPEFULLY THE BANKRUPTCY WILL
HELP IT-- WITH THE COMMUNITY,
WILL HELP DETROIT GET BACK ON
TRACK BUT YOU REALLY DISO HAVE
TO CROSS YOUR FINGERS.
>> Woodruff: 40% OF THE STREET
LIGHTS NOT WORKING.
THAT'S TOUGH.
LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID TODAY, AFTERNOON
NEWS CONFERENCE, DAVID,
ANNOUNCED MORE STEPS TO PROVIDE
MORE TRANSPARENCY, MORE
SAFEGUARDS AROUND GOVERNMENT
SURVEILLANCE PROGRAMS.
WHY IS HE-- WHY IS HE ANNOUNCING
THIS NOW?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I THINK-- I
SAW THE LAW PROFESSOR BACK.
WE HAD FEDERALIST 10, GO BACK TO
THE FEDERALIST PAPERS.
WE HAVE A GOVERNMENT BASED ON
CLASH OF INTERESTS.
AND THERE IS A CLASH OF INTEREST
BETWEEN LIBETYR ASK SECURITY.
WHEN WE BUILT THE POST-9/11
STUFF WE BUILT UP STRUCTURES FOR
SECURITY, KIND OF LEFT OUT
STRUCTURES FOR LIBERTY PIECE.
EVEN THOSE OF US WHO THINK THE
PROGRAMS ARE SUCCESSFUL, THINK
THEY WORK, DON'T THINK THERE
HAVE BEEN TOO MANY ABUSE, SHOULD
ACKNOWLEDGE THE NEED FOR A
STRUCTURE FOR LIBERTY.
I DON'T KNOW HOW STRONG THE
STRUCTURES ARE THAT THE
PRESIDENT BUILT IN, BUT HE BUILT
IN A COMPONENT IN THE PRIVATE
COURTS OF LIBERTY, BUILT SOME
OUTSIDE REVIEW BOARDS TO
EMPHASIZE THAT SIDE OF EQUATION.
SO I THINK WE'RE GETTING CLOSER
TO A MATURE SYSTEM WHICH HAS
BOTH SIDES REPRESENTED, THE
CLASHING OF LEGITIMATE
INTERESTS.
I THINK TODAY WAS THE MATURATION
OF OUR SECURITY STATE.
>> I HAVE A SHORTER ANSWER TO
YOUR QUESTION OF WHY THE
PRESIDENT ANNOUNCED THIS, AND
IT'S TWO WORDS-- EDWARD SNOWDEN.
I AM NOT A PARTISAN OR FAN OF
MR. SNOWDEN, BUT IT HAS TO BE
SAID THAT WE WOULD NOT BE HAVING
THIS DISCUSSION WERE IT NOT FOR
HIM.
AND I THINK IT'S LONG, LONG
OVERDUE.
THE PRESIDENT ALLUDED TO IT IN
HIS PREVIOUS SPEECH THAT HE
MENTIONED TODAY AT THE NATIONAL
DEFENSE UNIVERSITY.
BUT THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS
THAT SNOWDEN'S DISCLOSURES
REALLY PROMPTED AN ASSESSMENT OF
THE KIND OF TENSIONS THAT DAVID
IS TALKING ABOUT THAT REALLY WAS
LONG OVERDUE.
I HAVE LITTLE
BIT LESS HERE THAN MEETS THE
EYE.
HE SORT OF ANNOUNCED A
FOUR-POINT PLAN TO HAVE A
FOUR-POINT PLAN, THE DETAILS ARE
KIND OF TO COME.
>> Woodruff: WELL, HE SAID
THESE CHANGES ARE COMING ANYWAY.
HE SAID THEY WERE GOING TO COME.
THEY JUST CAME FASTER BECAUSE OF
WHAT SNOWDEN DID.
>> THAT STRIKES AS ABOUT RIGHT.
THERE'S NO QUESTION WE WOULDN'T
BE TALKING ABOUT THIS WITHOUT
SNOWDEN.
MY PAPER WAS DOING STORIES ON
N.S.A., AND THINGS WERE
DRIBBLING OUT, AND IT WAS SORT
OF STUFF WE WOULD WRITE ABOUT
BUT IT WASN'T A BIG, HOT
POLITICAL ITEM UNTIL SNOWDEN.
THERE'S NO QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
THE ONE THING I WOULD SAY, I
THINK IT'S WRONG TO CODIFY THIS
ENTIRELY.
WHEN YOU'VE GOT A NATIONAL
SECURITY ISSUE, WE REALLY HAVE
TO RELY ON THE DISCRETION OF THE
CIVIL SERVANTS INVOLVED IN THIS.
WHEN YOU'VE GOT A SERIOUS
THREAT, WE WANT THEM TO LEAN A
LITTLE FORWARD.
WHEN YOU DON'T, WE WANT THEM TO
LEAN A LITTLE BACK, BUT IT
REQUIRES AN AN AWARENESS OF THE
SPECIFIC CONTEXT WE'RE IN, AND
THE PRESIDENT ALLUDED TO
SOMETHING INTERESTED-- HE
TRUSTED THE SYSTEM BUT
UNDERSTANDS PEOPLE OUTSIDE
WASHINGTON DON'T TRUST THE
SYSTEM.
THE ONE THING I WOULD SAY-- AND
THIS DOESN'T GET SAID ENOUGH
EVEN IF YOU'RE NOT IA BIG FAN OF
GOVERNMENT IT'S CIVIL SERVANTS
WHO WORK HERE ARE SURPRISINGLY
COVERAGE OF COMPETENT,
SURPRISINGLY COMMITTED AND I
THINK THEY'RE WORTH HAVING SOME
TRUST, IN THE CAREER PEOPLE IN
THESE SORTS OF JOBS.
>> Woodruff: ARE YOU SAYING
YOU THINK WHAT HE ANNOUNCED
TODAY IS UNNECESSARY THEN?
>> I WOULDN'T SAY THAT.
I DO THINK YOU NEED THOSE
COUNTER-BALANCES, BUT I DO THINK
THE PEOPLE DOING THESE JOBS--
THEY'RE NOT PARTICULARLY
POLITICAL.
AGGRESSIVE, AND AS HE SAID,
THEY'RE NOT PARTICULARLY
THERE HAVE NOT BEEN ABUSE.
AGGRESSIVE, AND AS HE SAID,
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
THERE HAVE NOT BEEN ABUSE.
POTENTIAL FOR ABUSE, BUT SEE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
THAT ARE THERE HAVEN'T BEEN
POTENTIAL FOR ABUSE, BUT SEE
TREMENDOUS AABUSE.
THAT ARE THERE HAVEN'T BEEN
AT THE SAME TIME, WE HAVE REALLY
TREMENDOUS AABUSE.
DONE TREMENDOUS DAMAGE TO
AT THE SAME TIME, WE HAVE REALLY
AL QAEDA.
DONE TREMENDOUS DAMAGE TO
>> WELL, AND WE SAW IT THIS WEEK
AL QAEDA.
WITH ALL OF THE WARNINGS ABOUT
>> WELL, AND WE SAW IT THIS WEEK
THE PROBLEMS IN YENL AND THE
WITH ALL OF THE WARNINGS ABOUT
CLOSING OF THE EMBASSIES.
THE PROBLEMS IN YENL AND THE
WE DO WANT, WHEN THINGS LIKE
CLOSING OF THE EMBASSIES.
THAT HAPPEN, A LITTLE BIT OF
WE DO WANT, WHEN THINGS LIKE
LEANING FORWARD, THOUGH I THINK
THAT HAPPEN, A LITTLE BIT OF
I DO DISAGREE WITH DAVID ABOUT
LEANING FORWARD, THOUGH I THINK
THE NEED FOR CODIFICATION,
I DO DISAGREE WITH DAVID ABOUT
BECAUSE WHILE I THINK THAT THE
THE NEED FOR CODIFICATION,
PEOPLE WHO WORK IN THIS FIELD--
BECAUSE WHILE I THINK THAT THE
AND AS MANY PEOPLE IN
PEOPLE WHO WORK IN THIS FIELD--
WASHINGTON-- ARE VERY DEDICATED
AND AS MANY PEOPLE IN
PUBLIC SERVANTS, THEY DO NOT
WASHINGTON-- ARE VERY DEDICATED
HAVE THE BUILT-IN DESIRE-- IN
PUBLIC SERVANTS, THEY DO NOT
FACT THE PRESIDENT KEEP THINGS
HAVE THE BUILT-IN DESIRE-- IN
SECRET.
FACT THE PRESIDENT KEEP THINGS
YOU DO NEED TO BUILD IN MORE
SECRET.
PROTECTIONS, MORE OVERSIGHT,
YOU DO NEED TO BUILD IN MORE
BOTH IN THE FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
PROTECTIONS, MORE OVERSIGHT,
SURVEILLANCE COURT, AND IN TERMS
BOTH IN THE FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
OF DISCLOSURE, AND IN TERMS OF
SURVEILLANCE COURT, AND IN TERMS
CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW THAN THE
OF DISCLOSURE, AND IN TERMS OF
EXISTING SYSTEM HAS HAD.
CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW THAN THE
>> Woodruff: I THINK I HEAR A
EXISTING SYSTEM HAS HAD.
DIFFERENCE OF OPINION.
>> Woodruff: I THINK I HEAR A
>> I THINK SO, BUT IT'S NOT
DIFFERENCE OF OPINION.
CLEAR WHAT'S BEEN ANNOUNCED, AND
>> I THINK SO, BUT IT'S NOT
IT'S NOT CLEAR HOW IT'S GOING TO
CLEAR WHAT'S BEEN ANNOUNCED, AND
BE ENACTED WHEN IT'S PUT INTO
IT'S NOT CLEAR HOW IT'S GOING TO
PLACE.
BE ENACTED WHEN IT'S PUT INTO
THERE MIGHT BE AN ADVOCATE IN
PLACE.
THESE COURTS, IN THESE FISA
THERE MIGHT BE AN ADVOCATE IN
COURTS BUT HOW STRONG WILL THAT
THESE COURTS, IN THESE FISA
ADVOCATE?
COURTS BUT HOW STRONG WILL THAT
BE WHAT KIND OF LEVERAGE OF THAT
ADVOCATE?
PERSON HAVE.
BE WHAT KIND OF LEVERAGE OF THAT
THAT SEEMS TO ME MURKY.
PERSON HAVE.
>>> DEFINITELY MURKY.
THAT SEEMS TO ME MURKY.
>> Woodruff: CONNECTED TO
>>> DEFINITELY MURKY.
SNOWDEN-- ALTHOUGH THE PRESIDENT
>> Woodruff: CONNECTED TO
SAID IT IS NOT THE ONLY
SNOWDEN-- ALTHOUGH THE PRESIDENT
RELATIONSHIP HE CANCELED HIS
SAID IT IS NOT THE ONLY
MEETING WITH PRESIDENT PUTIN OF
RELATIONSHIP HE CANCELED HIS
RUSSIA, WHERE DOES THIS LEAVE
MEETING WITH PRESIDENT PUTIN OF
THE U.S.-RUSSIAN RELATION.
RUSSIA, WHERE DOES THIS LEAVE
>> NOBODY SLOWCHED.
THE U.S.-RUSSIAN RELATION.
EVERYBODY SIT UP.
>> NOBODY SLOWCHED.
DON'T BE PUTIN.
EVERYBODY SIT UP.
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S BAD.
DON'T BE PUTIN.
WE'RE IN A DARK POINT OF THE
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S BAD.
RELATIONSHIP.
WE'RE IN A DARK POINT OF THE
PART OF IT IS AT THE TOP.
RELATIONSHIP.
PUTIN IS A GUY WHO LIKES TO
PART OF IT IS AT THE TOP.
COMPETE WITH OTHER MEN.
PUTIN IS A GUY WHO LIKES TO
OBAMA IS A GUY WHO LIKES TO
COMPETE WITH OTHER MEN.
AND THEY SEEM A PSYCHODRAMA AS
PUTIN GOT INTO A PSYCHODRAMA
WITH BUSH BEFORE THEM.
A LOT OF THE PERSONAL AND A LOT
OF PETTY, WHEN YOU HEAR THE
BACKROOM STORIES OF MANO A MANO.
>> MY DOG IS BIGGER THAN YOUR
DOG.
>> WE'RE BEING RUN BY
14-YEAR-OLDS.
>> IN THE WOMEN TAKE OVER BUT
THERE WAS A COMPETITION WHOSE
DOG WAS BIGGER AND PINT HAD A
BIGGER DOG THAN BARNEY.
SO THERE'S THAT ELEMENT.
BUT THE BIGGER PROBLEM IS THAT
WE HAVE GOTTEN RUSSIA INTO A
SPOT WHERE THEY'RE BENEFITTING
FROM THIS.
PINT BENEFITS FROM THIS.
HE'S IN DICEY POLITICAL STRAITS.
HE GETS TO TAKE THE U.S. ON,
BOTH ON SNOWEDDEN AND GAY
ISSUES, REALLY POPULAR FOR HIM
BACK HOME.
I THINK THERE WAS PROBABLY A
MORE SUPPLE WAY NOT TO PUT HIM
IN THIS CONFRONTATIONAL MODE
WHERE HE WOULD BENEFIT FROM
DISSING US.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU THINK
THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED?
>> AND I DON'T THINK WE'VE BEEN
SUPPLE ENOUGH ABOUT THAT.
>> I THINK THIS WAS A PRETTY
CALCULATED SNUB.
YES, IT'S A DARK RELATIONSHIP,
BUT WE DO NOT WANT TO BREAK IT.
SOMEN SOME WAYS, WE NEED THEM
MORE THAN THEY NEED US.
WE NEED THEM, RUSSIA, ON SIRPIA,
ON IRAN.
THEY HOLD THE SEAT ON THE
SECURITY COUNCIL.
AND SO EVEN-- AS MARGARET'S
PIECE SAID, FANS WE ARE
CANCELLING THE SUMMIT, WE'RE
HAVING THESE OTHER MEETINGS SOAP
YOU WANT TO-- THE RELATIONSHIP
IS FRAYED BUT YOU DON'T WANT TO
BREAK IT.
>> Woodruff: THE ONE DOMESTIC
ISSUE THAT CAME UP TODAY WAS
HEALTH CARE REFORM.
, RUTH.
THE PRESIDENT WAS PRETTY
PASSIONATE IN TERMS OF GOING
AFTER THE REPUBLICANS FOR
THREATENING TO SHUT DOWNTOWN
GOVERNMENT.
SHOULD WE READ SOMETHING INTO
THIS?
>> YES!
MAYBE THE PRESIDENT FINALLY A
YEAR-PLUS AFTER THE FACT IS
GETTING HIS GROOVE ON HEALTH
CARE.
I THOUGHT THIS WAS THE MOST
EFFECTIVE PRESENTATION HE'S MADE
POLITICALLY AGAINST THE
REPUBLICANS SAYING I DON'T QUITE
GET THIS.
THEY WANT TO SHUT DOWN THE
GOVERNMENT TO MAKE SURE THAT
MORE PEOPLE DON'T GET HEALTH
CARE.
AND I THOUGHT IT WAS A PRETTY
GOOD LINE.
AND PARTICULARLY BECAUSE THE
REPUBLICANS HAVE HELPED HIM IN
TWO WAYS BY HAVING THIS REALLY
UNFORTUNATE, AND IRRESPONSIBLE
THREAT TO SHUT DOWN THE
GOVERNMENT BY REFUSING REFUSEINO
THE NORMAL TWEAKS HE MENTIONED
TO HELP FIX ANY NEW LAW WHICH IS
NOT GOING TO BE FULLY FUNCTIONAL
IMMEDIATELY AND ALSO BECAUSE THE
REPUBLICANS HAVEN'T REALLY COME
UP WITH AN ALTERNATIVE BEHIND'D
BEYOND DEFUND OBAMACARE?
>> Woodruff: FINALLY GETTING
HIS GROOVE.
>> I THOUGHT HE WAS FINE.
HE WILL NOT ALLOW THE GOVERNMENT
TO SHUT DOWN.
HE WILL BLINK.
THE LAST GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN, I
THOUGHT IT WAS HIS STRONGEST
MOMENT TO TAKE ON THE
REPUBLICANS AND SAY, ANOTHER
SHUT DOWN THE GOVERNMENT, BOYS.
AND HE DECIDED NOT TO DO THAT.
FOR LEGITIMATE REASONS.
THEY WERE AFRAID OF WHAT WOULD
HAPPEN TO THE ECONOMY.
SO HE FOLDED A LITTLE BIT THERE.
I THINK THEY'LL KNOW HE WILL DO
THAT AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: BECAUSE HE
THOUGHT THEY WOULD ACT ON IT.
>> HE WAS AFRAID OF GOING TO THE
BRINK AND SHUTTING DOWN THE
GOVERNMENT, BECAUSE HE THOUGHT
THE ECONOMY WOULD TAKE A HIT,
WHICH HE WAS RIGHT ABOUT, AND HE
CIEFD IN A LITTLE AND I ASSUME
REPUBLICANS KNOW THAT WILL
HAPPEN AGAIN.
>> I THINK THERE'S INTENSITY TO
BLINK ON BOTH SIDE ASHT LEAST IN
TERMS OF THE GOVERNMENT RUNNING
OUT OF MONEY.
WE'LL SEE WHAT HAPPENS WHEN WE
GET TO THE VERY CLOSE ISSUE OF
WHAT HAPPENS WITH THE DEBT
CEILING.
BUT, YES, THE PRESIDENT HAS HAD
A HISTORY OF BLINKING.
I THINK THE REPUBLICANS MAY BE
MORE
MORE LIKELY TO BLINK AT LEAST
OVER THE DEFUNDING OF OBAMACARE.
>> THE REPUBLICANS HAVE A STRONG
INCENTIVE TO BLINK, TOO.
>> EVERYBODY IS BLINKING.
>> Woodruff: NOTHING TO DO
WITH BLINKING, BUT, RUTH, THE
NEWSPAPER FOR WHICH YOU WRITE
YOUR COLUMN, BIG SALE THIS WEEK,
AMAZON.
SURPRISED?
HOW DID YOU-- YOU AND YOUR
COLLEAGUES, WHAT DID YOU THINK?
>> SURPRISE IS NOT A STRONG
ENOUGH WORD.
STUNNED.
THIS WAS SOMETHING-- I SAID IT
WAS THE DAY OUR EARTH STOOD
STILL.
THIS WAS SOMETHING WE NEVER IN A
MILLION YEARS CONTEMPLATED
BECAUSE THE GRAHAM FAMILY IS THE
WOEM, THE "WASHINGTON POST" IS
THE GRAHAM FAMILY.
WE HAD ALWAYS UNDERSTOOD THEIR
PUBLICLY HELD COMPANY BUT THEY
HAVE THE MAJORITY SHAIRDZ, WAS
OUR BULL WORK.
THIS WAS A SAD DAY FOR PEOPLE
LIKE ME WHO SPENT 30 YEARS
WORKING AT THE "WASHINGTON
POST."
I WORKED FOR THE GRAHAM, BUT THE
GRAHAM FAMILY DECIDED IN THE END
TO TRANSFER THE NEWSPAPER, SELL
IT TO JEFF BEZOS, OF AMAZON, IN
ORDER TO HELP PROTECT IT.
SO THERE'S REASONS TO BE-- I'M
STUNNED.
I'M SAD.
BUT THERE ARE REASONS TO BE
HOPEFUL HERE.
FIRST OF ALL, JEFF BEZOS HAS A
LOT OF MEN TO HELP THE PEOPLE.
SSKED ALL, HE'S GOT PATIENCE TO
WORK IT OUT.
AND THIRD, HE'S GOT EXPERIENCE
IN THIS NEW AGE OF THE INTERNET.
MY AMAZON PRODUCTS COME VERY
QUICKLY AND EFFECTIVELY, AND IF
HE CAN DO FOR THE "POST" WHAT HE
DID FOR AMAZON, GOD BLESS HIM.
>> IF I CAN KISS UP TO MY--
>> Woodruff: IS THAT WHAT YOU
WERE DOING?
>> I DON'T CARE ABOUT THEM
ANYMORE.
>> THE SAINTED SALZBURGER
FAMILY, THEY'VE TAKEN HIT FOR US
AND THE GRAHAMS TOOK HIT FOR THE
"POST."
FINANCIALLY, IT'S TO SAVE
NEWSROOM JOBS, AND I THINK
PEOPLE SHOU BELD GRATEFUL, THEY
ARE SOME OF THE MOST HUMBLE
PEOPLE INWAS HINGTON-- MAYBE THE
ONLY ONES-- CATHERINE GRAHAM, IF
ANYBODY HASN'T READ HER MEMOIR,
READ THAT.
A LIFE OF FULLY RICH GROWTH
THROUGH LIFE.
AND SO THEY WERE TRUST EASE TO A
GREAT INSTITUTION, TREATING IT
NOT ONLY AS A BUSINESS BUT AS AN
ACT OF PUBLIC SERVICE.
AND I AGREE WITH RUTH, AT THE
END OF THE DAY, THE "POST" WAS
DOING WHAT NEWSPAPERS ARE DOING
THESE DAYS AND THIS IS A WAY
OUT.
NEWSPAPERS ARE GOING TO BE LESS
LIKE A BUSINESS, A LITTLE MORE
LIKE A UNIVERSITY IN THE YEARS
AHEAD.
>> Woodruff: WE HEAR YOU BOTH.
DAVID BROOKS, RUTH MARCUS, THANK
YOU.
>> Brown: WE'LL BE BACK SHORTLY
WITH AN UNUSUAL TALE OF GOATS
GRAZING IN A HISTORIC GRAVEYARD.
BUT FIRST: THIS IS PLEDGE WEEK
ON PBS.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT.
AND THAT SUPPORHELPT S KEEP
KWAME HOLMAN IS BACK WITH THE
STORY.
>> Holman: IT'S A PART OF
WASHINGTON WHERE ONLY ONE
BARNYARD BEAST IS MOST OFTEN
INVOKED.
>> PORK!
>> THEY CALL IT PORK!
>> Holman: IN A CITY FILLED WITH
ANIMAL MASCOTS AND ICONS, FROM
THE DEMOCRATS' DONKEY, TO THE
REPUBLICAN ELEPHANT AND THE
"RINO," OR "REPUBLICAN IN NAME
ONLY."
THIS WEEK, WITH CONGRESS WELL
AND GONE FROM ITS HILL DURING
THESE DOG DAYS OF SUMMER.
IT WAS THE GOATS' TOWN FOR THE
TAKING.
A TRAILER-FULL WAS LOOSED ON A
ONCE-NEGLECTED QUARTER OF
CAPITOL HILL-- THE 200-PLUS-YEAR
OLD HISTORIC CONGRESSIONAL
CEMETERY.
>> WE HAVE A LOT OF ENGLISH IVY,
POISON IVY, KUDZU AND I KNEW THE
GOATS WERE THE SOLUTION TO TAKE
CARE OF THAT.
>> Reporter: PAUL WILLIAMS IS
PRESIDENT OF THE ASSOCIATION
THAT SAFEGUARDS THE CEMETERY; IT
IS NOT AFFILIATED WITH THE U.S.
CONGRESS, EXCEPT IN NAME:
>> ABOUT 20 YEARS AGO THE
CEMETERY WAS ALL BUT ABANDONED.
IT HAD LOTS OF WEED AND TREES
AND TOPPLED HEADSTONES.
>> Holman: EVEN THOUGH IT'S BEEN
CLEANED UP SINCE, THE LARGE
TREES BORDERING THE CEMETERY
WERE SO OVERGROWN THEY WERE IN
DANGER OF FALLING ON GRAVES.
SO, INSTEAD OF GALLONS OF
ROUNDUP AND ROARING CHAINSAWS,
THEY OPTED FOR A GREEN
ALTERNATIVE FROM A FARM NEAR
ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND
>> THEY SHOULD BE HERE SIX OR
SEVEN CALENDAR DAYS.
12 GRAZING DAYS, USING TWO
HERDS.
>> Holman: BRIAN KNOX RUNS
SUSTAINABLE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT.
HE'S THE GOAT'S SHEPHERD AND
THIS WEEK WITH OUTSIZED MEDIA
ATTENTION THEIR QUASI-AGENT.
>> Holman: THE GOATS AREN'T
HERE, IN THE CEMETERY PROPER,
BUT THERE ARE MEMORIALS TO 200
CONGRESSMEN WHO FIND THEIR FINAL
RESTING PLACE  HERE AND A HERD
OF BOLD-FACED NAMES FROM TWO
CENTURIES OF WASHINGTON LIFE.
WE ASKED "NEWSHOUR" REGULAR AND
PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN RICHARD
NORTON SMITH TO JOIN US AT THE
CEMETERY.
HE SAID THE GROUNDCLEARING GOATS
WERE NOT IN FACT TRAILBLAZERS.
>>ACK  BIN W.W.I., THE WHITE
HOUSE PUT A FLOCK OF SHEEP ON
THE SOUTH LAWN.
MRS. WILSON WAS CALLED LITTLE BO
PEEP, THEN AS NOW PRESIDENCY
INVOLVED THEATER.
>> Holman: HE ALSO ACQUAINTED US
WITH SOME OF THE ONCE-LEADING
LIGHTS LAID TO REST HERE.
>> WELL AMONG THE STARS: THERE'S
J. EDGARD HOOVER AND JOHN
PHILLIP SOUSA, WHO'S REGULARLY
SERENADED HERE.
THERE'S A WHOLE HOST OF QUASI
HISTORICAL CELEBRITIES: BELVA
LOCKWOOD RAN IN 1884.
>> Holman: WHEN SHE COULDN'T
VOTE GOT 4,000 VOTES, FROM
SYMPATHETIC MEN.
PRESTON BROOKS, WHO BEAT CHARLES
SUMNER ON THE FLOOR OF THE
SENATE.
YOU THINK PARTISAN BICKERING IS
BAD NOW.
>> Holman: BEYOND THAT, RICHARD
SAID THIS QUIET PLACE RECALLS A
TIMELESS MAJESTY NOW ALL BUT
LOST.
>> THERE ARE NO RED STATES OR
BLUE STATES IN HERE.
DOESN'T MATTER IF YOU HAVE SKINS
ULTIMATE FORM OF DEMOCRACY.
>> Holman: THE GOATS ARE ABOVE
PARTISAN RANCOR.
WHEN WE ARRIVED, THE GOATS WERE
ON THEIR BREAK.
>> THESE ARE NOT UNION GOATS!
WE HAVE 58 GOATS HERE TODAY.
THEY'LL BE GRAZING FOR ABOUT SIX
DAYS ON 1.6 ACRES AT A COST OF
ABOUT $4,000.
>> Holman: AND IN BOTTOM-LINE-
CONSCIOUS WASHINGTON, THESE
BILLIES COME IN UNDER BUDGET.
>> BUT IF YOU BREAK IT DOWN,
IT'S ABOUT 25 CENTS PER GOAT,
PER HOUR, BELOW MINIMUM WAGE,
BUT IT'S ALL YOU CAN EAT!
>> Holman: THERE WAS MILLIE AND
007 AND THE PYGMY GOAT CALLED
WEIRD AL.
HE'S A BIT OF A LONER SAYS KNOX.
>> EVERY GOAT'S GOT HIS OWN
PERSONALITY.
THE ANALOGY OF HIGH SCHOOL IS
ACTUALLY GREAT FOR GOATS:
BECAUSE, WITH A HERD, YOU'VE GOT
THESE LITTLE SUBGROUPS THAT ARE
VERY CLIQUE LIKE.
THERE MIGHT BE FOUR OR FIVE
>> Holman: ONE LOCAL RESIDENT
BROUGHT HER DOG FOR A WALK AND
WAS GLAD TO SEE THE CEMETERY GET
ITS DUE.
>> THE CEMETERY IS WASHINGTON'S
BEST KEPT SECRET.
ATTENTION FROM ECO-GOATS GETTING
AND THAT WAS THE WHOLE PURPOSE!
>> Holman: RETIRED SURGEON
MASSIMO RIGHINI HAS LIVED IN
WASHINGTON 50 YEARS.
WHAT ABOUT CLEANING UP THE
CEMETERY'S NAMESAKE INSTITUTION?
>> I DON'T THINK THERE ARE ANY
GOATS IN THE WORLD THAT CAN
CLEAN UP CONGRESS RIGHT NOW.
IT'S PROBABLY UN-DIGESTABLE.
>> Holman: BE THAT AS IT MAY,
THE HERD HAS FOUR MORE DAYS TO
WORK ITS WONDERS ON AT LEAST
THIS PART OF CAPITOL HILL.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA PLEDGED TO MAKE
THE NATION'S SURVEILLANCE
PROGRAMS MORE TRANSPARENT IN AN
EFFORT TO RESTORE PUBLIC TRUST.
THE PRESIDENT ALSO SAID HE'S
>> THE STATE DEPARTMENT PLANS TO
REOPEN 18 OF 19 CONSULATES IN
MIDDLE EAST AND SATISFACTORY
CLOSED BECAUSEAVE TERRORIST
THREAT.
THEEQUACY IN YEMEN WILL REMAIN
CLOSED.
>> Brown: ONLINE, WE CONTINUE
OUR LOOK AT A GROWING MOVEMENT
FOR SENIORS TO "AGE IN PLACE."
IN BALTIMORE, A JOHNS HOPKINS
PROGRAM HELPS ELDERS ASSESS
RISKS OF STAYING IN THEIR HOMES.
AND ON MAKING SENSE, ECONO-
CROONER MERLE HAZARD, A.K.A.
NASHVILLE MONEY MANAGER JON
SHAYNE, SINGS ABOUT CHALLENGES
AHEAD FOR THE FEDERAL RESERVE IN
HIS LATEST MUSIC VIDEO, "THE
GREAT UNWIND."
PLUS SEVEN ECONOMISTS WEIGH IN
WITH THEIR PERSPECTIVES.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
BUT BEFORE WE GO, A REMINDER:
THE NEWS DOESN'T STOP ON FRIDAY,
AND SOON, NEITHER WILL THE
"NEWSHOUR."
STARTING IN SEPTEMBER, JOIN OUR
OWN HARI SREENIVASAN EVERY
SATURDAY AND SUNDAY FOR A
30-MINUTE LOOK AT THE LATEST
NEWS FROM AROUND THE NATION AND
THE WORLD.
THE ALL-NEW "PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND" PREMIERES ON SATURDAY,
SEPTEMBER 7.
FOR MORE INFORMATION, VISIT
PBS.ORG.
AND ON THE "NEWSHOUR" ON MONDAY,
IS THE GOVERNMENT SNOOPING ON
OUR PRIVATE LIVES WITH CAMERAS
THAT PHOTOGRAPH LICENSE PLATE
NUMBERS?
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
"WASHINGTON WEEK" CAN BE SEEN
LATER THIS EVENING ON MOST
PBS STATIONS.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE MONDAY EVENING.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.